How Big Companies like google and Facebook are storing and managing their data

In this article I want to explain about how the big mnc companies like Google and Facebook are managing data
I found a major resource for storing the data is cloud for any company like Google is using there Google cloud platform for story data and also Facebook and Netflix and also the hey big companies like Pinterest also using Amazon web services okay I can say Amazon cloud for storing the data this tells us do big MNC companies are using cloud and also using big data techniques like Hadoop 4 storing the data and retrieving it very efficiently and in speed.

companies using big data
1. Amazon:
In today’s consumer landscape, Amazon is an e-commerce giant. Amazon’s success does not come by an accident. Amazon becomes successful because it utilizes the advantage of big data to make decisions, please customers, and stimulate purchase.
Amazon has access to the vast amount of data of its customers like customers’ names, addresses, payments made by customers and search histories.
2. Facebook:
Face Book processes 2.5 billion pieces of content and 500+ terabytes of data each day. It’s pulling in 2.7 billion Like actions and 300 million photos per day, and it scans roughly 105 terabytes of data each half hour.
Facebook generates 4 petabytes of data per day — that’s a million gigabytes. All that data is stored in what is known as the Hive, which contains about 300 petabytes of data.
Every 60 seconds, 510,000 comments are posted, 293,000 statuses are updated, 4 million posts are liked, and 136,000 photos are uploaded.
3. Netflix
Netflix has surpassed Disney with a company valuation of over $164 billion. Netflix’s success is attributable more to user experience and content rather than marketing. Netflix content is influenced by big data. It uses Big Data to find out what users want to see and give it to them.
4. American Express
American Express handles about more than 25% of the U.S. credit card activity. Big Data is the heart of decision-making at American Express. American Express interacts with people on both sides that are millions of buyers and millions of businesses. The Company uses big data for fraud detection and bringing customers and merchants closer.
5. Starbucks
Starbucks is one of the best-known companies in the world. It has over 27,000+ stores. The secret ingredient for Starbucks’ success is its use of data analytics.
6. LinkedIn
LinkedIn is the first largest network that connects professionals and employers all over the world. It is the biggest social network platform for professionals, with 660 million users spread over 200+ countries. As per the November 2019 report, over 30 million companies have profiles on LinkedIn. Every second, more than two new members join LinkedIn
Conclusion
The conclusion is big MNC companies are using cloud and big data for managing their huge data and give good user experience.
